# DeviceCheck - iOS App Attestation
A new Apple iOS feature to "attest" an app is healthy.  

https://developer.apple.com/documentation/devicecheck

`DeviceCheck` launched in the summer of 2020 as part of the iOS 14 release.

On paper, the `Public Interface` to the `DCAppAttestService Class` is tiny:
```
var shared: DCAppAttestService
var isSupported: Bool
func generateKey(completionHandler: (String?, Error?) -> Void)
func attestKey(String, clientDataHash: Data, completionHandler: (Data?, Error?) -> Void)
func generateAssertion(String, clientDataHash: Data, completionHandler: (Data?, Error?) -> Void)

```

But then it becomes apparent there is a sister class: `dcdevice`:

```
class var current: DCDevice
var isSupported: Bool
func generateToken(completionHandler: (Data?, Error?) -> Void)
```

To use the DCDevice class, the app ID must with this `Capability` on `developer.apple.com`.

### Design notes
- `Key` generated by App Attest are `generated` and `persisted` inside the device’s `Security Enclave`.

- Like other `Secure Enclave` work, the app is never given the `Private Key`.  

- The app is responsible for persisting a `key Identifier` so you can always point the `Secure Enclave` to the correct `Private Key`.

- The app can get a serialized version of the `Public Key`.  But, before that happens, you call `service.attestKey`. This makes a call to `Apple's attestation service`.  Apple servers generate an `attestation object` and return it to the app.  That object can then be passed to your server.

- This `attestation` step is purely an `enrolment` step to ensure the app's `App Attest Public Key` resists tampering.

- Other parts of the `attestation object` additional your server to detect `replay attacks`.


### Tradeoffs
- The request to Apple's servers can fail.  Or forced to fail.

- `if service.isSupported` references a `Yes/No` Objective-C property that could be swizzled at run-time.
